WordPress or Html is a common ask question amongst business owners and web developers. Unlike in the past, when the development of a simple website takes days if not months before launching.

In recent times, once an individual or business entity has decided to own a website. Depending on the complexities and functionalities of the website. A website can be fully developed and viewed across the globe in a couple of hours.

Table of Contents
The Learning Process
Why website?
What to do before developing my website?
When to Use HTML for my website development?
The Pros of Html Website…
The Cons of Html Website…
When to use WordPress for my website?
The Merit of WordPress Website…
The shortcomings of WordPress Website….
The Learning Process
Learning these skills takes very little time unlike in the past. And, all it takes from you is commitment and consistency. The resources to learn these skills will always be available to you as long as the internet exists. I once launched two websites in a day using the content management system, WordPress.

Have some tea, chill and tell your soul that you can do this…..

It doesn’t matter if you know to program. All that matters is making the decision to be informed on the subject matter. Enough of the talk!!!!

Why website?
Your business website is the extension of a business card. Constantly reminding your customers and creating a new list of customers is not something a business owner wants to joke it.

In the modern business environment, making a mobile-friendly online presence is so important that the impact it has on businesses cannot be comprehended. This article of about helping business owners and developers in deciding the best platform to build the website you are thinking of.

And, with Google Analytics which can be embedded in a modern website. A business owner can have the demographic of their customer list and have details knowledge of what and where the company need to improve with little or no additional cost.

What to do before developing my website?
The common stages of website development, be it Html or Content Management System are:

Deciding on the domain name to use. This is your website URL, yourname.com, me.org, jdd.com.ng, test.net…
Choosing a hosting company
Development of the website
Before the phases above, a business owner or web developer must have a sketch or details of the following:

How should the website look? That is the design appearance of the website. The client or the developer can either have a rough sketch or better still use software like adobe illustrator for the design. This saves time in the long run and prevents unnecessary costs. It gives general ideas of how the designs will look.
Another important stuff is the website options. That is, the services perceived by the website. The common questions to ask here include:
Do I need a website or web application? And why to further help your decision-making process.
What functions does the website perform? is it a tool website, informative website or online store?
The hosting company to partner with is another important factor to consider before going ahead with web development.

When to Use HTML for my website development?
You can use Html to design and develop your website when:

The contents of your website won’t be changing often.
You want to have total control over your website.
You have coding experience or have funds available for outsourcing.
You have team member(s) with coding experience and can effectively maintain the website.
The Pros of Html Website...
Some basic pros of using Html to design your website are:

It is faster on the server than websites designed with WordPress.
There is full control over the front end and backend of the website.
Backing up is very less often when compared with WordPress because there are not often updates.
It is more secure than the WordPress counterpart.
The Cons of Html Website...
Despite the advantages of designing your website with Html. It has its shortcoming. Some of which are:

Without coding experience in programming languages like HTML, CSS, PHP AND JAVASCRIPTS. You cannot make even make some simple changes to your website. You may have to call on your developer every time you want to make changes or post content on your website.
It is impossible to avoid high maintenance costs when you develop your website with Html, if you do not possess basic web development skills.

Unlike the development of websites using Html that can not be executed without basic scripting and programming skills.

Simple websites can be developed by any individual even without any programming experience. Having scripting and web development programming skills is an added advantage.

Any business seeking to develop a simple website or woo-commerce website for his business at a reduced cost can take advantage of Content Management systems like WordPress. Like I said before, all you need is commitment and consistency.

When to use WordPress for my website?
When you possess little or no coding experience
When you have no ideas on where to begin the designs. WordPress theme gives you different ideas that can open your mind to what’s important for your website
When time and cost is a factor.
When you want to manage and maintain the website yourself
The Merit of WordPress Website...
It can easily be managed because basic tasks can be performed with clicks.
You can easily add as many features you want in the long run with plugins
It is less expensive when compared with full-stack development
It is an open-source software which means you don’t have to worry about your website meeting the recent technologies. There are frequent updates that meet recent changes in technology.
The shortcomings of WordPress Website....
You cannot perform advanced changes or customization without knowledge of backend web development programming languages like PHP and MySQL
With lots of options and plugins available, you may overwhelm your website with unnecessary plugins that may hinder the performance of your website.
Since it is open-source software, there is a need for constant updating of your theme and plugins.
It is slower to access on the server when compared with static Html websites. That is, Html is faster to access on the web than WordPress
Register or Login to drop your opinion in the comment box. Let’s help each other to grow that business…
