Why Should my Business Have a website Blog Post
Irrespective of what kind of business it is, there is a need for cash flow to keep the business running which makes business owners think critically when making business decisions.


The end objective of every business expense is the value for money, and this brings us to one of the most asked business questions, will having a website for my business be a value for money.

Before we go in-depth into this intriguing question, we should have an understanding of the discrepancy between websites, web apps and mobile applications for businesses to determine which is the best option for the business.

And, to ensure the value for money. So, often business owners do not know the differences and spend quite a lot of money and quality time on what the business doesn’t need at that time. In this article, we are going to be discussing the following headings:

The discrepancy between a website, web app and mobile application with business?
What is the most critical step to take before launching a business website, web app or mobile app?

Table of Contents
1. THE DISCREPANCY BETWEEN A WEBSITE, WEB APP AND MOBILE APPLICATION FOR BUSINESS?
WHAT ARE MOBILE APPS, WEBSITES AND WEB APPS?
THE DISCREPANCY BETWEEN WEBSITES AND WEB APPS?
The discrepancy between business website and web app using an example.
Who should I hire or what should I learn?
IS IT A WEBSITE, WEB APP, OR MOBILE APP THAT IS THE BEST OPTION FOR MY BUSINESS?
Mobile application is an extension of your website or web app.
2. What is the most critical step to take before launching my website, web app or mobile app?



1. THE DISCREPANCY BETWEEN A WEBSITE, WEB APP AND MOBILE APPLICATION FOR BUSINESS?
Almost all business entities and individuals are faced with this question. There are several reasons for choosing one of these options and choosing the wrong one can cause a significant detriment to business growth. The arrangement of this section is as follows:

What are a mobile app, web app and website?
The discrepancy between website and web app?
Is it a mobile app or website/web app that’s the best option for my business?
WHAT ARE MOBILE APPS, WEBSITES AND WEB APPS?
The applications on your android devices or iOS devices are mobile applications. The contents or information you accessed through browsers such as Chrome, Firefox, UC Browsers, Opera Mini, Safari etc. are either web apps or websites.


The discrepancies between web apps and websites shall be discussed below. Accessing data or information through browsers in most cases requires access to the internet unless in cases where the websites or web app is local host. And, in these cases, it can only be accessed on the device at which the server is configured.


THE DISCREPANCY BETWEEN WEBSITES AND WEB APPS?
Most times web application is confused with websites. Although the major difference is hardly significant with the recent improvement in programming languages used for developing both web applications and websites.

One of the major bottlenecks that make both confused the same is because both require browsers as a medium of accessing the desired information from the internet. since both require access to the internet, there is a need for the front and back end development which are written in similar programming languages.

A website is built using HTML, CSS and the JavaScript programming language. Content Management systems such as WordPress have made the development of websites to be as extremely easy as possible at reduced cost and time. It is important to note that the development of web applications goes beyond the scripting languages of HTML and CSS and programming languages such as Javascript.

Depending on the functionalities and complexities of the web app, the programming language required for development may involve other programming languages such as PHP, Python and Javascript frameworks such as JQuery, React Native, Angular JS etc.

For this reason, it is essential for business owners to have an absolute understanding and pictorial representation of the website or web app’s short term and long term objectives.

With the recent responsiveness of modern websites, one way to distinguish between a website and a web application is that the whole operations or tasks of a web app are on a single screen.

While the website uses different two or more screens to perform basic tasks. A common example of a web app is Google Gmail, the whole operation you are performing on the platform is on the same screen. Enough of the serious talk, let’s look at the differences between web apps and websites from another dimension.

The discrepancy between business website and web app using an example.
Another difference between web applications and websites depends on what the user can do. This illustration will elucidate the English better,

I have a friend named Donald and he wants to know how to cook a stew. So he picked up his phone and type in Google, “How to cook a good stew”. Of course! A Series of links will be displayed to him and he can open any of the pages to read about how to cook a good stew.

Donald with no access to the page backend, so he cannot make changes to any of the cooking procedures he didn’t agree with on the screen. He can read what’s on the screen but cannot add any input, not even his name, address, his cooking style, this is a typical example of the website.

Donald can only read and have a better understanding of the subject matter in this case. In a web application, Donald won’t just be able to read the cooking procedure but can add or remove some cooking procedures or make whatever changes he wants based on the level of access given by the developer i.e. the contents the developer allows to change.

If you can perform a simple task such as online chat, make an online payment, performs a search, fill a form etc. then it is a web app. Websites are static content (just see it like a newspaper that you read for several reasons).

In summary, users can only read the content of websites but can manipulate data or the contents in a web application.


The setback of using user interaction to differentiate websites from web applications is that you can hardly find a website lately that doesn’t allow some form of interaction.

Don’t be confused by this because recent websites have web app integrated into them that allows them to perform the function of interaction. A typical example of a website is a blog site and Facebook, Gmail, YouTube are typical examples of web applications.

Who should I hire or what should I learn?
The next question you are asking yourself as a business owner or a new developer is probably:

Should I then hire a website developer or web app developer?
Should I use websites or web apps for my business?
Should I learn website development or web app development? Etc…
The answer to these questions and possibly whatever other questions you are thinking of is simple and direct. If your business is just to provide information to your customers and requires no data manipulation or data inputs from the user.

Then a website is the best option for you. Otherwise, it’s a web application. In business settings, websites are more like your online business card that only tell your customers and potential customers about the services you rendered or products you sell and the mediums of contacting you.

With modern websites and the integration of Content Management System, CMS like WordPress. Having a website that performs the functions of a web application is possible.

Modern developers equip themselves with knowledge in both fields which this makes it easy for the business owner to have websites that can perform all the functions of a web application.

It is best practice for your business website or web app to allow user email subscription for which you send emails on an occasional basis. In the long run, this will increase your customer list and create a good relationship between you and your customers.

IS IT A WEBSITE, WEB APP, OR MOBILE APP THAT IS THE BEST OPTION FOR MY BUSINESS?
By now, you understand the difference between mobile apps, websites and web apps. You can now decide if to use a website or web app for your business. And, the next question is whether to use a mobile app or website or web app for your business.

My short answer: If there is financial capability, then use both mobile app and website/web app (depending on your decision between website and web app). And, ensure your website and/or web app is mobile responsive.

A mobile app is an extension of your website/web app and any business or organization with financial capacity must have a mobile app for their business.

In reality, people spend more time with their mobile devices than you can imagine and having a mobile app makes it easier for people to check your websites or web app as it is easier and more convenient than logging through a browser. It also makes people remember you every time they check their app list on their phone.

Look at Facebook, Gmail and YouTube; even though they can be accessed by opening any browser and typing the Url, almost all users have the mobile app of each of them on their devices because it is more convenient. Convenience and a constant reminder of your existence to your customers and potential customers isn’t something you want to joke with.



Mobile application is an extension of your website or web app.
It is better to view the mobile app as an extension of your website and any business that is not financially buoyant should make the development of a website a priority over a mobile application.

A responsive website can improve your businesses members more than a mobile app could, especially for businesses that have not been known across the globe. Another reason why a responsive website should be considered over mobile apps for small businesses is?

Designing a responsive website is less expensive compared to building a mobile application.
Designing a mobile app leads to the option of designing for either android devices or designing for iPhone devices. Whatever option you choose means forgoing one option using the scale of preference. An android app cannot run on an iOS device and vice versa and in the long run, you may have to build for both which is not the case for websites. With a website, you don’t have to worry about who can access your online business card (website). Although there are frameworks recently that enables the development of mobile applications that runs on both android device and ioS devices. But there are still ongoing arguments either to rely on these frameworks or native development for business applications.
Millions of people can easily access your website through a link on social media compared to a mobile app. A click on your shared link leads to opening your website but with a mobile app, the link will request downloading the app which in most cases doesn’t happen for small businesses.
Having a mobile app and website or web app for your business can increase your potential customer list daily. When managed properly will significantly increase your list of customers. Using a mobile app for your business can:

Make it easier for your customer to get in touch with you but can also significantly add to your potential customer list via the app store marketing system.
Provide an extremely unique experience for your customers.
In summary, if you have to decide between the mobile app and website or web app then a responsive mobile-friendly website or web app is the best choice for most businesses.

It is important to carry out feasibility studies or market research of the business to determine which of the options is best for the business.

There are a few businesses that require a mobile app and not a website or web app to have a competitive advantage. Business owners must liaise with the marketing team to determine the best option for the business.

In a general sense, users tend to spend more time on the mobile app and it becomes instinct to access your competitors’ websites with a mobile application.


2. What is the most critical step to take before launching my website, web app or mobile app?
At end of concluding whether to have a website, web app or mobile application, the next step forward is to take decisive action. 

The decision-making process is what I refer to as the initiation stage of acquiring a website or web app or mobile app. Part of this stage before designs and development is a thorough understanding and sketch of what you envisage. 

So, often I’ve seen business owners making tremendous losses owing to a website and this is due to not providing an adequate plan before going to the execution/implementation and closing phase of the project. 

During the planning phase of the project, the business owners must decide on platforms on which to develop the website or web app or mobile app.

It is paramount for a business owner to have in place, at least a sketch if not UI designs of the website or web app or mobile you intend to develop.

 The hosting company and the domain in case of a website or web app, the app name, the intended functionalities, the management plan and the marketing plan for the website. 

The most business website fails to generate income for businesses due to failing to have a system in place before the launching of the website or web app or mobile app. 

Unless you are running an NGO, the end objective of any business is to generate a positive cash flow and having a system in place on ways to use your website or web app or mobile app as a cash inflow for your business is paramount before launching.
